>> Hi, I'm Joel Sokol,
Director of the Master of Science in
Analytics degree at Georgia Tech
and a professor in Georgia Tech's Stewart School of ISyE.
In this lesson, I'm going to introduce
the first case that you'll be
thinking about in this part of the course.
The case actually comes from
a student project that I supervised a while back.
We are working with the city's power company.
I can't say which city or which power company,
but it was a pretty good-sized
city and they had a problem.
The power companies problem was that some of
their customers don't pay their bills.
And I'm not talking about
well-meaning people who just aren't able to pay,
for those customers the power company
has a fund that people can
donate to pay power bills
for the people who can't afford to pay.
We have something like that in Atlanta.
My family and I pay a little extra on
our power bill every month
and so do a lot of other people,
and that extra money goes to pay
the power bills for people who aren't able to pay.
So that's not what the power company was concerned with,
they were concerned with
other people who could pay, but don't.
The power company wanted to
turn those people's power off,
but there were two problems.
First, they only wanted to turn off the power
from people who are not ever going to pay.
But some of the people who didn't
pay might have just forgotten,
or some customers get behind on
payments but are able to pay it all back after a while.
For those customers,
the power company wanted to keep their power on,
they'll pay for it eventually.
They only wanted to cut off
the power from people who would never pay for it.
And second, the company needed
to prioritize and be efficient.
There were more people each month whose power should be
shut off than the company had capacity to handle.
The shut-off had to be done manually
by workers who had to go to each location
and the time required to travel
all around the city and turn off the power
at all those locations was more work
than the company had the capacity to do.
So that's the issue to think about.
How can you use analytics models to
make good recommendations for the power company?
Since this is your first case,
let me give you a little bit of structure.
Here's some questions to consider.
The bottom line question is which shutoffs should be
done each month given the capacity constraints?
One consideration is that some of the capacity,
the worker's time is taken up by travel,
so maybe the shut-offs could be scheduled in a way
that increases the number of them that can be done.
But not every shut-off is equal.
Some shutoffs shouldn't be done at all,
because if the power is left on,
those people are likely to pay the bill eventually.
How can you identify
which shutoffs should or shouldn't be done?
And among the ones to shut off,
how should they be prioritized?
As you're going through these questions,
don't forget to think about what data you would
want or need to base your answers on,
and what analytics models or methods you'd need to use.
And keep in mind that it's often
useful to have the output of one model,
the input to another.
Of course, this isn't the question
that has a single right answer,
there are potentially lots of
different approaches and there's no way to know
whether an approach works well
unless you've tested it with real data,
and that's not what I want you to spend your time on.
Rather than most of your time being used up on
basic preparatory data formatting and analysis,
I want you to spend your time thinking about
the analytics modeling component of a solution.
So go ahead and try it.
Think about the problem and
your approach then talk about it with other learners
and share and combine
your ideas and then put your approach is up
on the discussion forum and give
feedback and suggestions to each other.
You can use the given,
use, to format,
to guide the discussions and have fun.
This is my favorite part of analytics,
taking a real problem and thinking through
the modeling and data process to
build a good solution framework.
It's something I really like to do.
That's why I'm in this field and that's
why I spent so much of my research and
consulting time working with
all companies and organizations
to help them with their analytics.
So I'm really going to enjoy this part of the course,
and I hope you do too.