>> Hi, I'm Joel Sokol,
Director of the Master of Science in Analytics degree at
Georgia Tech and a professor in
Georgia Tech's Stewart School of ISyE.
Up to this point in the course,
we've seen a wide range of analytics models that
can be used to answer lots of
different types of questions.
And we've also seen a bunch of
important topics that cut across
many analytics models like how to deal with missing data,
how to validate and test a model, etc.
We've now finished with that overview of
analytics and it's time to get some practice.
So onto the second part of the course.
In this part of the course,
I'm going to give you some case studies to work on.
In each one, your job will be to think
carefully through how you would
approach them using analytics,
what models might be
good ones to answer the key questions,
and what data you might
need for your models to work well.
I'm going to ask you to make extensive use of two tools,
the discussion forums and your brain.
For each case, you should do three things.
First, think carefully about the answers yourself.
Then discuss with a group of your fellow learners,
your homework group for example,
and maybe iterate those two steps, think, discuss,
think discuss until you all
feel like you have a reasonable approach.
Then discuss again using a broader forum,
the full class discussion board.
I suspect you won't all agree and that's fine.
You shouldn't all agree.
At the end, you'll get to write up your own solutions
and see solutions that
your fellow learners have come up with too.
Whenever I assign this sort of thing,
there are two different pieces that can take a lot of
your time: what the answers are,
and how to present your answers.
I really don't want you to get
bogged down in the how question.
I want you to spend your time thinking about
the analytics questions not on formatting.
So before I move on to the first case,
I want to give you a framework
for formatting your answers.
The way I want you to present
your answers is to use a simple structure that
hopefully will also help
guide your analytics thinking along the way.
For each piece of your solution,
I want you to use this language;
given this data,
use this model to get this result.
For example, given a child's age, sex, current height,
and parents heights, use
linear regression to predict
the child's height at adulthood.
Here's another example.
Given the amount of crude oil
available each day at supply ports,
the daily demand in each refinery,
the availability speed and cost
of the company's fleet of oil tankers,
the port capacity at supply ports and refineries,
and the range of weather effects on travel time,
use an optimization model to determine
the best pickup delivery and
routing schedule for all of the tankers.
And here's one more example to show
how you can integrate models with each other.
Given minute by minute traffic data
on 12 popular websites,
use ARIMA and GARCH models to predict
the mean and variance of the traffic on
each site five-minutes into the future.
And then, given
those predictions from the ARIMA and GARCH models,
pass data on the fraction of visitors to
each website who click on
your company's banner added each time of day,
and the fraction of banner ad clickers
who purchased your product,
use a simulation model to suggest the break-even price
for advertising on each of
the websites for over the next five minutes.
Using this given, use,
and to format will help guide your thinking and it will
also help make it easier for you
to describe your ideas to each other.
So now that we have a standard format for this thing,
Let's go ahead and start looking at cases.