>> Hi. I'm Joel Sokol
director of the Master of Science in
Analytics degree at Georgia Tech and a professor
in Georgia Tech's Stewart School of ISyE.
In this lesson, I'm going to describe
the next case for you to think
about from a modeling perspective.
Like the other cases,
it comes from applied analytics work that I've
either done myself or supervised others doing.
This case deals with a large,
big box retailer that wants
to optimize its shelf spacing.
The underlying idea they came to us with had three parts.
First, that the more shelf space
they give to a type of product,
the more of it they'll sell.
Second, the more of a product type they sell,
the more they'll sell complimentary products.
And third, if
two complimentary product types
are next to each other on the shelves,
then the complimentary effects will be even greater.
You can think about this idea in
the context of a grocery store.
If there's more shelf space for cereal,
the store might sell more cereal and sell more milk.
And if the cereal and milk are
next to each other then the increase
in milk sales will be even larger,
or at least that's the company's hypothesis.
So the company asked us to optimize their shelf space.
How much shelf space should the company
have to maximize their sales or profit?
Of course, there are some restrictions.
For each product type
the retailer imposed a minimum amount of
shelf space required and a
maximum amount that can be devoted.
And of course, the physical size of each store means
there's a total amount of
shelf space that has to be used.
But the key is the division of
that shelf space among the product types.
For the purposes of this case,
I want you to ignore other factors.
For example don't worry about
promotions for certain products and
don't consider the fact that some companies
pay the stores to get more shelf space.
Just think about the basic question asked by
the retailer and how you could
use analytics to address it.
As part of your answer,
I'd like you to think about how to measure the effects.
Before you can answer the company's question,
you probably need to know how much extra sales
the company might get with
different amounts of shelf space.
How will you estimate that?
And for that matter, how will you determine
whether the effect really exists at all?
Maybe the retailers hypotheses are not all true.
Can you use analytics to check?
One of the key issues in this case will be data.
In the Power Company case,
the data needs were more basic.
In this case, thinking about the data
might be harder than thinking about the models.
So go give it a try,
see what you can come up with that
might be helpful for this retailer.